Previously on Elementary...
Have you heard anything
about my friend?
There have been no new leads
in the disappearance
of Polly Kenner.
There is nothing I can do
to get his attention.
If I need to get louder,
I'll get louder.
HOLMES:
A woman was murdered
two nights ago in Brooklyn.
The earrings that she
was wearing were Polly's.
Do you have any idea who did it?
Yeah, he did it.
Not a doubt in my mind.
WATSON: Your blood pressure
and heart rate are way up.
You're not just
suffering from PCS.
This is clinical fatigue now.
So, I'm going to go away
for a while,
but I'll be back.
While I'm away,
you have my word,
I won't hurt anyone.
My car's here.
Taking a break from everything
is smart.
It's what your doctor wanted.
You'll be back soon enough.
You'll be better.
Watson!
(footsteps approaching)
I have returned.
Am I crazy,
or did you say
you were gonna come
back on Friday?
I did... but some sore feelings
developed between me
and the local constabulary.
Why would...?
You got involved in a case,
didn't you?
As you know, I spent the bulk
of the last three months
in my cabin, cut off
from the outside world.
So, when word reached me
that renowned trapper
Ragnar Hagerstrom had been
killed by a pack of black bears
just miles from my
mountainside retreat...
You weren't supposed
to do any work.
I realize
that, but...
No work. That was the deal.
As I told you
when we last corresponded,
I haven't experienced
a headache in over a month.
My sleep patterns have
returned to normal.
Well, my normal.
I still have to follow up
with Dr. Hanson,
but all indications are that
my post-concussion syndrome
is in abatement.
Now, would you
like to hear about
one scorned woman's attempt
to frame an innocent black bear
or... not?
And why do you keep
looking over there?
I have a houseguest.
You've taken a lover
in my absence. That's excellent.
I can't wait to
meet him. Or her.
Or is it them?
No, I have not
taken a lover.
So, why are you so determined
to stop me
from going downstairs?
WOMAN: Hey, Joan,
I hope you don't mind,
but I'm starving, so I
dug through your fridge.
Hi. I'm Kelsey.
Kelsey, this is Sherlock,
my partner.
Oh. I don't
recall seeing
his name in
the paperwork.
What paperwork?
He is not my partner partner.
He is my business partner.
What paperwork?
The application she filled
out to adopt my baby.
No... Kelsey just got in
about 20 minutes before you did,
so why don't I
take you upstairs,
and then you can
get settled.
We'll talk.
How's it going, Professor?
How long are you gonna
keep calling me that?
Haven't decided yet...
Professor.
Can I at least take
off the dunce cap?
Hey, who signed off
on this concrete
being poured
the other night?
I did.
And who forgot to ask me
if we'd finished
putting in all the piping?
Me.
Then no, you can't
take off the cap.
Are you gonna watch me
pull up every slab?
Just the first.
Making sure you still know
how to operate a chain hoist.
Happy?
What did I do now?
What is that?
That's a person, Fred.
Two arms with...
guts in the middle.
And those are the legs.
Somebody got buried here.
And you just cut 'em
into pieces.
*
HOLMES: I'd ask for an
update on the search
for Michael Rowan, but your
data speaks for itself.
No activity on his credit
cards or cell phone.
Since we spoke last weekend,
his e-mail account
remains a ghost town.
I take it our friends
at the Bureau
are still sending you
missing persons alerts.
Yeah, every day someone
goes missing,
I get a notice on my phone.
I thought we were
onto something when a woman
who looked a little
like Maddie Williams
disappeared in Fresno
the other day.
I almost called you,
but then she
turned up safe and sound
a couple hours later.
Would appear that Michael
has gone dormant.
That's one possibility.
Another is that he's gotten
so good at killing
that no one in law enforcement
even notices anymore.
As we discussed before I took
my leave of absence,
he seemed to mean it when he
said he would restrain himself.
He also said he'd be back, so...
we have to believe
he meant that, too.
Thank you.
For tending to this
while I was gone.
Couldn't have taken
the time I needed
without knowing that you
were still at the helm.
I wasn't the only one
looking for Michael.
You're the only one
who mattered.
Is there a corresponding
wall of evidence
which traces your search
for a baby?
(sighs)
I'm sorry about that.
I did not mean to spring
Kelsey on you.
My attorney didn't even
tell me about it till yesterday.
Your attorney?
Yeah, I hired him a few weeks
before you left.
Listen, I was gonna talk
to you about it,
but you were going through
so much with your PCS, and I...
Watson, you don't owe me
an explanation.
She's going to be here
for a few more days only, okay?
Then she goes back to school
in Philadelphia.
She's here to meet with me
and a couple of other
prospective parents
before she goes back.
(cell phone chiming)
It's Marcus.
I know you just got back,
but how
do you feel
about a trip to the morgue?
Mmm.
HAWES:
Meet Jane Doe.
Construction crew found her
in a concrete floor
they were cutting
into pieces this morning.
As I noted,
the saw they were using
cut her just below
the shoulders
and right above
the knees.
No concrete in her
throat or lungs,
so she was dead
before she went into the cement.
These ligature marks-- cause
of death strangulation?
Yeah. As confirmed
by a fractured larynx.
Time of death's
between 6:00 p.m.
and midnight
two nights ago.
Makes sense.
The floor she was in
was poured two nights ago.
Any security cameras
at the work site?
BELL:
No.
And it's a small crew--
eight guys total.
Alibis for the first six
have already checked out,
and I'm expecting the remaining
two to go the same way.
Says here that you found
a nylon fiber in her teeth.
God bless man-made fibers
and the manufacturers
who register them.
The lab says that the fiber
came from the seat belt
of a late-model Japanese sedan.
Unfortunately,
the seat belt is used
in cars made
by multiple companies.
Stands to reason
it was the murder weapon.
These ligature marks
are approximately
48 millimeters across.
That is standard width
for a seat belt.
Personal effects?
Help yourself.
I checked with
Missing Persons.
She doesn't match
any reports.
No hits on her
fingerprints, either.
Who needs fingerprints
when you got one of these?
What, a rubber
bracelet?
It's a smart rubber bracelet.
Do you have a scalpel?
Oh.
Thank you.
Companies with restricted areas
sometimes use
RF chips embedded
in bracelets instead of
the traditional
plastic access cards.
So...
This should help us identify
her employers,
and that, in turn,
should help us identify her.
MAN:
Oh, my God.
Poor Lauren.
You said somebody killed her?
Strangled her.
She didn't have
any I.D. on her,
but the RF chip in her bracelet
told us she worked
here at Pathas Global.
Or at least she did until you
suspended her
without pay last week.
She was very talented,
but she and Pathas
were proving not
to be a good fit.
That said, I'm sure HR still
has all her information.
I'll ask somebody
to bring it up.
Actually, we've already
been to HR.
Got everything we need.
Well, I'm confused.
Why did you need
to speak with me?
You said Lauren Wexler
and Pathas weren't a good fit.
But...
you are Pathas, Mr. Salinger.
It says so right there.
Oh, you think I had something
to do with this?
Listen, I
suspended Lauren.
Why would I also kill her?
Why would you call her
an "incompetent bitch"
on a convention floor
last month?
Oh... I wouldn't have taken you
for a fan of tech industry
gossip sites.
You were overheard saying
that you would end her.
Now she's dead.
If you thought the gossip sites
were hard on you before...
I wasn't talking
about ending her.
Okay, I was talking
about ending her work on MERMA.
What's MERMA?
SALINGER:
MERMA is an acronym.
Marine Ecosystem Renewal
and Maintenance Apparatus.
This thing glides across
the surface of a body of water,
neutralizing pollutants
and removing toxins.
It's like a Roomba
the size of a Fiat,
only instead of cleaning floors,
this thing cleans oceans.
Now, Lauren, was supposed to be
one of the finest
clean-tech engineers
in the country.
I brought her here
to spearhead that project.
That was two years ago,
and you want to know
how many MERMAs
we've built since then?
Zero.
Hence your frustration
with Ms. Wexler.
At the start,
she was relentless.
She did over a year
of field research.
She traveled all
around the globe
commissioning
prototypes.
But then, about six months ago,
she comes in here,
tells me the thing won't work.
Project's a loser.
(chuckling):
And I told her
that was unacceptable,
and I sent her
back to the drawing board.
And when her attitude
didn't improve,
I benched her, but...
that is all I did.
Can you account
for your whereabouts
between 6:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight
two nights ago?
Is that when Lauren was killed?
Just answer the question,
Mr. Salinger.
Two nights ago, I was at
a yoga retreat in San Francisco.
A bunch of us were.
We just flew back on
the corporate jet this morning.
In fact, I will get you
my pilot's information.
(chuckling):
Hell, I will get you
my yogi's information.
Hey, just out
of curiosity,
has your investigation
brought you into contact
with a man named Troy?
No. Why?
Well...
few weeks ago,
on a day when Lauren
actually bothered
to show up for a meeting,
she stepped outside
to take a call
from someone by that name.
I couldn't make out exactly
what she was saying, but...
it was obviously an argument.
Did your eavesdropping happen
to register Troy's last name?
Sorry.
Troy-- all I got.
(door opens)
BELL:
Hey.
I, uh, just got off the phone
with Mr. Salinger's pilot.
His alibi checks out.
Where's Joan?
She had to go home
to check on a houseguest.
You guys have someone staying
with you at your place?
Like, on purpose?
Did Lauren Wexler's cell phone
company divulge her records?
No. Shouldn't be long.
Unless Troy was using a burner
when he called her,
should be able to work backwards
to his subscriber information.
Hmm.
You look good, man.
I mean, you know,
compared to the last time
I saw you.
It was difficult being away.
But I hear
the department has done
adequate work in my absence.
(laughing): Yeah, well,
we are the police.
They don't call us "New York's
most adequate" for nothing.
What is all
this stuff anyway?
It's the contents of Lauren
Wexler's work space at Pathas.
I had Mr. Salinger send it over.
Did her drinking bird tell you
much about who killed her?
No.
But this leaflet did.
"Home care instructions for
sutures, stitches and staples."
According to the receipt on
the back, she received stitches
at an urgent care facility
last month in Fishkill.
That's nowhere near
her residence.
Or the Pathas offices.
So, what was she doing there?
What, she was buying a hoodie?
No. Have a look
at the left sleeve.
You know this
isn't blood, right?
It's red paint.
It's not red.
It's Farmhouse Wagon Sienna.
Now, there are only three homes
in the area surrounding
the urgent care clinic
which have elements
painted that precise color.
And out of those three,
only this one is owned
by Troy Roselli.
You can tell Ms. Wexler's
cell phone company
they can keep her records.
I'm going to
tell Watson
to meet us in Fishkill.
Can I help you?
Troy Roselli?
Detective Marcus Bell.
My colleagues and I
want to talk
to you about Lauren Wexler.
Who?
HOLMES:
We believe she paid
a visit here
last month.
Soon followed by a trip
to the emergency care clinic.
Uh, I'm sorry.
Never heard of her.
See you had
your garage door
painted recently.
It's nice. I like it.
Thanks.
You wouldn't happen to have
a late-model Japanese sedan
in there, would you?
No, I, uh... I don't own a car.
You mind showing us?
No.
Let me, uh, just throw
on some clothes.
Well, he's obviously lying
about not knowing Lauren Wexler.
And about not having
anything in his garage.
(distant door opening)
Back door just opened.
He's running.
And there goes
the towel.
Stop right there!
I'll call local
PD for backup.
You two wait here.
Well, should we help him or...?
Well, normally I would,
but you saw the towel drop.
Mr. Roselli
couldn't be more unarmed.
Unless you think he's got
a weapon up his...
Let's just go look
at the garage.
I wanted you to know
that I am happy for you.
Your decision to become
a parent-- I support it.
You do?
Why wouldn't I?
Are you forgetting
I was in the room with you
when you told a pregnant woman
that procreation
was the only act
more masturbatory
than masturbation?
She was a murder suspect,
and besides, you're adopting.
You started looking
for somewhere to live?
What?
No. Why?
Well,
there's not an adoption agency
on the planet that would
hand an infant to a woman
who lives with a heroin addict.
You are in recovery.
Watson.
You know what?
Look, I already spoke
to my attorney,
and he knows that if my
lifestyle is a deal breaker,
then I'm not
going to adopt.
Anyway, I think the
bigger question is--
how are you going to feel
about having a kid around?
I mean, I would not expect
you to co-parent or anything.
The baby would be
my responsibility.
You said that about Clyde.
I am not talking
about a tortoise here.
For you, Watson...
I'd make adjustments.
Always.
Am I crazy, or is that a MERMA?
The supposedly
impossible-to-build
ocean cleaner?
Without question.
I'm beginning to think
that Lauren Wexler
wasn't so incompetent
after all.
No, she wasn't incompetent.
She was a thief.
Look, when you guys came
into my door, I swear to God,
I had no idea Lauren was dead.
Well, someone at her office
overheard you two
arguing over the phone
a few weeks ago.
Look, I'm not saying
I liked Lauren.
I'm just saying
I wouldn't have hurt her.
You already lied to us
once today, Mr. Roselli.
You told us there was nothing
in your garage.
So, why should we
believe you now?
I lied for the same reason
I ran away.
Okay? That.
The MERMA.
(Troy sighs)
Wish I'd never even heard
of the stupid thing.
You're an engineer.
You were helping Lauren
build it, right?
Yes. I was out of work
when she reached out to me.
I needed the money.
That trip to the
emergency care clinic--
she cut her hand when we were
replacing a propeller blade.
You were aware the plans
she gave you were stolen?
Yeah.
Lauren told me
she took a job at Pathas
because she believed
in the MERMA.
She knew oil companies
would pay through the nose
to clean up spills.
But then, about a year
into the project,
the guy who owns the company,
Salinger,
he decides to open-source
all the tech.
HOLMES:
So the companies
you're referring to
would be able to build
their own MERMA vehicles.
Companies, governments.
Anyone who wanted
to help clean up the ocean.
Pathas wouldn't
make a dime.
Lauren freaked.
She had points in the project.
So she stole all the plans,
started working with you.
She was gonna beat Pathas
to the market.
What about the lawsuits
that would follow?
She thought we could change
the tech just enough
to make it hard
for Pathas to build a case.
Maybe Salinger found out
about what we were doing,
killed her
'cause he was so ticked.
Actually, Mr. Salinger
has an alibi
for the time of the murder.
He didn't do it.
Well, then maybe it was
one of the other people
Lauren stole from.
What other people?
The idea of the MERMA
came from Pathas, but...
the tech came from inventors
from all over the world.
BELL:
Mr. Salinger
said something
about Lauren traveling a lot,
commissioning pitches
from people.
Yeah, different
engineers
were supposed to work
on different components.
In the end, she poached
the best ideas she heard.
How would those people
have found out
you guys built your own MERMA?
I guess it could've been
during a test drive.
That prototype you saw,
it's fully functional.
Lauren took it out
on the Hudson a few times
to put it through the paces.
Maybe the wrong person
saw her do it.
* Confusion, days of delusion
* Take me through...
I'm sorry about that.
(chuckles)
Feels like I spend half my life
in the bathroom these days.
Well, you're pregnant,
so it sort of comes
with the territory.
I was telling you
about Brody, right?
Yeah. The father.
Yes.
He's a very sweet guy.
Very cute.
No interest
in being a dad, but...
Hey, just so
you know,
um, what happened...
it's not like me at all.
I don't sleep around.
Honestly, it's really
none of my business.
I know, but it's
important to me.
Because I was raised
a certain way,
and I didn't even date
until I got to college, so...
if things work out
between you and me,
I just want you to be able
to tell people
that the biological mom
wasn't a slut.
You have my word.
So, your parents
sound pretty conservative.
How did they take it
when you told them
that you were gonna
give the baby up for adoption?
They practically threw a party.
Ladies, here you go.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
So, you swear you and your
partner never slept together?
No. Never.
And you're not a lesbian?
No.
Sorry, it's just--
he's hot, you're hot.
You'd make a great couple.
You would be surprised
how often we don't hear that.
In the form you filled out
for your attorney,
it said that you
used to be a doctor.
Mm-hmm. Well, technically,
um, I still am a doctor.
Well...
how did your parents take it
when you told them
you were giving that up
to be a detective?
Um, you know,
it took them
some time to adjust.
I'll bet it did.
All the time you put in,
all the money
they put in, God...
I couldn't do that.
Not ever.
I'm sorry if that
sounds judgmental, but...
judging you is kind of
the whole point of this trip.
It's okay. I mean, you have to
go through your process, right?
Am I crazy, or did I see a bunch
of beehives on your roof?
(footsteps approaching)
How was your breakfast?
I cannot remember
the last time
I was so intimidated
by a 20-year-old.
She kept calling my situation
unconventional.
I've had more
than one career.
I live with my business partner.
Conventional is the enemy
of interesting.
I don't think she sees it
that way.
Were you jogging?
My PCS may be in remission,
but I have no intention of
ditching the regimen I adopted
to treat it. Speaking
of which, would it have
killed you to change
the water in
my sensory deprivation tank
while I was away?
Oh, how'd it go
with Troy Roselli last night?
Did he confess?
Only to being
an accessory
to intellectual theft.
He has an alibi
for the night
Lauren Wexler was murdered.
(sighs)
So we're back to square one.
Hardly.
He thought that in her
fervor to build MERMA,
she stole not
only from Pathas
but also from inventors
all across the globe.
He thought perhaps
one of them discovered
her betrayal when
she began testing
her prototype
in the Hudson River.
WATSON:
She kept a video log.
HOLMES:
Quite extensive ones.
And do they show anyone
spying on her?
As it turns out,
someone thought
she was the one
doing the spying.
MAN: How many times
I gotta tell you,
you can't be here.
How far am I from your
construction site?
A thousand feet?
I'm not bothering anyone,
and the last time I
checked, the Hudson River
was public property.
Then do us both a favor
and jump in.
'Cause the land you're
standing on is private property.
Look, every time
you come out here,
my bosses are gonna
make me chase you away.
I'm not going anywhere.
(scoffs) Lady...
these guys,
they don't mess around.
Okay, next time,
they won't send a guard.
They'll send one
of their people,
and it won't turn out well
for you-- trust me.
Now, when she continues to
ignore him, he goes away.
But I have a theory as to why
his employers were so troubled.
These are the results
of Ms. Wexler's tests.
Levels of heavy metals--
lead, arsenic,
cadmium, copper--
well above EPA levels.
So, you think the people
behind the construction site
were dumping waste
into the river.
Are you sure these results
are accurate?
I'm not, so I'm about to
bring them to my Irregular Gay.
That didn't
sound right.
She's not my irregular gay.
Her name is Gay,
and she is an Irregular.
I know.
I introduced her to you.
But this is about
water pollution.
She's a geologist.
But her subspeciality
is hydrogeology.
Now, unfortunately,
these videos
never captured the
site in question
or any of its signage,
so I thought,
while I'm with Gay,
you could visit
the Dutchess County Department
of Buildings and Safety,
because the site in
question would've
had to log paperwork with them.
Let's see.
Parcel FN10970-1B,
lot 993482,
east bank of
the river.
Says here that permit was issued
to Topaz Valley Industries.
Any chance I could get a copy?
Sure.
Thanks.
Did you know
that you're the second person
to ask about that parcel
recently?
Am I?
Another woman came in last week.
Her name wasn't Lauren Wexler,
by any chance, was it?
Sounds right.
But my boss is the one
who ended up helping her.
Mr. Pickering?
Do you remember the woman
that came in to ask
about the construction
going on by the river?
Her name was
Lauren, right?
That's right.
Something I can
help you with?
I work with the police.
Ms. Wexler was murdered
a few days ago.
Oh, my.
We think
it might have
something to do with the company
that you issued this permit to.
Did she say why
she was looking into them?
Marjorie, would
you mind helping
this gentleman
over here, please?
Thank you.
Look, I'll tell you
everything I know,
but please, you just gotta
keep my name out of it.
Why is that?
When Ms. Wexler came in,
I told her
she has to be careful.
Topaz Valley Industries
is dangerous.
What do you mean?
Approving construction
permits takes time.
We were only a few
months into our process.
I was leaving the
office one night,
and a man in a
ski mask put a gun
to the back of my head.
He told me the permit
for Topaz Valley
had to be issued
by the end of the week,
or he'd be back.
I came in the
next morning,
and I forced the
permit through.
Look, you work
with the police,
so I probably don't
have to tell you this.
Organized crime and the
construction business,
they got a funny way of
going together sometimes.
WATSON: Hey, are you still
at Gay's office?
No, I'm at the site
where Lauren Wexler
was testing her MERMA.
Why?
Gay took one look at the data
and said she needed to
do some on-site testing.
Once we're done, we have to
go directly to the precinct.
Even if there are heavy metals
in the water,
we can't prove they came
from the construction site.
Funny thing
about that construction site.
It's abandoned.
The work has moved on
without building a thing.
That doesn't make any sense.
I just spoke to someone
who said the people who own
the land threatened to kill him
unless he issued
a construction permit.
Yeah, it was a cover.
It was a reason for their
trucks to be there.
They never did
any construction.
Nor did they dump
anything in the river.
In fact, quite the opposite.
They took something out.
They were siphoning sand.
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about one of
the most in-demand natural
resources on the planet.
Sand is an essential
ingredient in concrete,
detergent, silicon chips,
but its supply is finite.
So those in the business
of sand are always looking
for new ways and new
places to extract it.
You think that's
why Lauren Wexler was killed?
She figured out
what Topaz Valley was doing?
I do. I also think
it's the reason
that hundreds more might die
if we don't act quickly.
What do you mean?
I mean the men
who were working here
siphoned enough sand
from the riverbed
to destabilize
the support piers
on the bridge
that I'm looking at.
Gay thinks it's on the
verge of collapse.
I sure as hell wouldn't want
to drink it, but how does this
prove that Maracott Bridge
is about to collapse?
That sample, taken today
from the water
beneath the bridge, shows,
amongst other things,
an excess of limestone.
Why is that
important?
Because limestone
is the material
which the bridge support pylons
are made of.
High concentrations of it
indicates
that the support pylons
are eroding.
BELL: Hold up.
I thought we were
talking about sand,
not limestone.
WATSON: We are.
The extraction of the sand
is what caused the erosion.
Here. I made a model
on my computer.
I think this will help.
(sighs)
Tons of sand got siphoned
off the east bank here,
reducing its size.
Now, that, in turn,
made the river wider,
which means more
and more water is flowing
through this part of it
at faster speeds.
Now, if the guys
doing the siphoning
had just stopped there,
maybe we're not having
this conversation,
but if I'm right,
they got greedy.
They started
using hoses
to extract sand from the bottom
of the river, too.
That's why the woman
who was murdered
found such high concentrations
of heavy metals.
Sand acts
as a natural barrier
against heavy metals
in the earth's crust.
You remove the sand, and...
You get more of them
seeping into the water.
Meanwhile, the sand protecting
this limestone pylon is gone,
and the water moving past it
is going faster and faster.
Eventually, gravity takes over,
and then...
Hmm. I'll call
the state police
and the Department
of Transportation
and get them on
this right away.
In the meantime,
I'd like to get someone
from Topaz Valley Industries
in here.
HOLMES:
That's easier
said than done.
It's a shell corporation.
WATSON:
The man I spoke to at
the Department
of Building and Safety
in Dutchess County
thought it was a front
for organized crime.
HOLMES:
I suspected as much.
More specifically,
I suspected an Indian group--
recently expanded their
operations stateside.
The Sand Mafia.
BELL:
The Sand Mafia?
That's seriously
what they call themselves?
It's a name
they were given
in India, where their activities
have resulted in hundreds
of murders in recent years.
Now, they're made up of
many different factions,
not unlike the American Mob,
but only one of those factions
has a representative
here in New York.
You think this is the guy
who killed Lauren Wexler?
His name is Vikrant Jindal.
Now, I doubt that he
did the deed himself.
In India, he was notorious
for a very particular
method of murder.
Are those drill holes?
Yeah.
From his signature tool,
a power drill.
Now, lucky for us,
Mr. Jindal is also
particular about
his eating habits.
I have it on good authority
that he eats lunch
every single day
at his brother's restaurant.
So...
you fancy a curry?
(Indian music playing)
Mr. Jindal, enjoying
your aloo matar, I hope,
lest the chef's skull
soon resemble a colander.
Before you sic
your henchmen on us,
let me introduce my colleagues.
This is Detective Bell.
This is Joan Watson.
My name's
Sherlock Holmes.
We were hoping that
you might discuss
the murder of
Lauren Wexler with us.
Am I supposed to
know that name?
BELL: She spent
a lot of time
around your construction site
near the Maracott Bridge.
We think she realized that all
the sand removal you were doing
was gonna bring
the bridge down,
so you had her killed.
Sorry, I don't know this woman.
And none of the work we did
would have affected that bridge.
HOLMES:
Just like the work
your organization did
in New Delhi last year
didn't affect this bridge.
(Jindal chuckles)
This is New York,
not New Delhi.
We would never allow something
like that to happen here.
Is that supposed to mean
that you value American lives
more than you value Indian ones?
What I value is the
American dollar.
There are more regulations here
and more risk of lawsuits.
We tread more carefully
in this country.
Now, before we
bought the land
that you're referring to,
we agreed to pay
for impact testing,
performed by the Department
of Building and Safety
in Dutchess County.
We told them
we were going to extract
the sand,
and we were given a
report that guaranteed us
there wasn't going to be
any danger to the bridge.
I was at that department
this morning.
There were no such
reports issued.
Then you didn't look
hard enough.
Give my men
your e-mail addresses.
You'll have copies from
my attorney within the hour.
(door opens and closes)
How'd it go with Dr. Hanson?
He agrees I'm much improved
after taking
the last few months off,
although he insists
I remain vigilant.
Most of my hobbies
remain off the menu,
including some sex acts.
Is that the paperwork
from Vikrant Jindal's attorney?
Yeah, he e-mailed
a zip file
right after you left
for your appointment.
And?
It's like he said.
He told Dutchess County
they were
going to extract the sand.
Could be a forgery.
I don't know.
Looks legit.
But I am going to go to
the Building and Safety
Department tomorrow
to make sure.
In the meantime,
I sent a copy to Gay.
She took one look, and
she said the inspector
who allegedly signed off on
all this work, a Romeo Garza,
was either terminally stupid
or he wanted that bridge
to come down.
And why would he want that?
I don't know. Maybe he's
a very patient terrorist.
Until we can get in
a room with him,
I'm gonna assume
that Jindal's men
forced him to write
that report
just like they forced his boss
to approve that permit.
Marcus went to pick him up
a little while ago.
He's gonna call us when
they're both at the precinct.
Is that Kelsey downstairs,
is it?
Yeah, she said
she had midterms.
She wanted a quiet place
to study.
Either that, or she's
already decided
I would make a terrible mother
and she does not want
to look me in the eye again
before she leaves tomorrow.
I'll try not to disturb her
when I make my supper.
Evening.
Hi.
Do you need me to study
someplace else or...?
No.
I was, uh, hoping we might talk.
Sure.
Watson was saying that you might
have some concerns
about our living arrangement,
so, uh,
I was thinking perhaps
I could allay them.
(chuckles) I wouldn't
say I have concerns.
It's just... a lot
to think about.
So that's what I'm doing--
I'm thinking about it.
She told me that you were aware
of my-my personal history.
You know I'm
a recovering addict.
Mm-hmm.
Doesn't concern you?
Should it?
I want you to know that...
if you deem Watson the best
candidate to raise your child,
and if you decide to
give her that gift,
I could leave.
Wait, what do you mean,
you could leave?
I mean I could go away.
We wouldn't have
to share a home.
I know for a fact
that's not what she wants.
You know, what we want
and what we need
are very often
mutually exclusive.
You think Joan needs
to be a mom?
I think that when she told me
of her plan the other day,
I was very surprised.
But when you know her
as well as I do,
it makes sense
her being a parent.
The child that she raises
will be very, very lucky.
So, you think she could do it?
Be a mom?
I think she could do anything.
(cell phone buzzes)
Hmm.
Something wrong?
No, um, just a...
a colleague of ours
was supposed to find a suspect.
And he couldn't find him?
He could.
Just not in the, uh, condition
that we anticipated.
BELL:
I count at least
five drill holes,
just like that picture
you showed us at the precinct.
Vikrant Jindal might as well
have signed his name.
Hmm...
Romeo Garza had
to have been
in cahoots with
the Sand Mafia, right?
Jindal killed him
'cause he was a loose end.
HOLMES:
Yeah, that's...
precisely what we're meant
to believe.
"Meant to"?
Vikrant Jindal may be as
large an odorous piece
of human excrement as
I've ever encountered,
but I can tell you
with virtual certainty
he didn't kill this man.
He's being framed.
GREGSON: This fits Vikrant
Jindal's M.O. to a T.
What makes you think
he didn't do it?
His love of cows.
When I visited Jindal
at his brother's restaurant,
there was a Vaishnava
puja shrine.
Vaishnava is a particularly
devout Hindu sect
that hold cows to be sacred.
Also of note, neither Jindal
nor any
of his associates
wore leather shoes or belts.
And beef was conspicuously
absent from the menu.
Okay, but the killer didn't
drill holes in a Guernsey.
He did it to a person.
A person whose wrists
were first bound...
with a leather belt.
A devout Vaishnava would
never even touch such an item.
BELL:
Back in India,
Jindal always used rope
or fabric
to tie his victim's wrists.
All right, maybe he went
with something that was on hand.
Maybe one of the victim's belts.
A possibility I considered
until I looked at the size.
It's too large to have
belonged to Mr. Garza.
I think the killer
brought it with him
as he did the drill
for his skull.
Okay, say you're right.
Where does this leave us?
BELL: Jindal's
attorney sent us
paperwork that seems
to support his story.
Topaz Valley Industries
asked for and received a permit
to extract the sand
in the vicinity
of the Maracott Bridge.
HOLMES: However,
when I compared them
to samples of handwriting
found at Mr. Garza's home,
it was obvious
they were not a match
for the signatures
that we received on the paper.
Okay.
So the Sand Mafia
forged the paperwork.
Well, that's another
possibility,
but why would they
kill someone so brazenly?
Why not just dispose of the body
where we would never find it?
Okay, say you're right.
The Sand Mafia
didn't forge the paperwork,
and they didn't kill
Romeo Garza.
Who did?
And why did they want
Topaz Valley to think
their sand mining
wouldn't affect
the Maracott Bridge?
What?
If the Sand Mafia
didn't kill this man
and they didn't
forge the signatures,
what else didn't they do?
PICKERING:
This is horrible.
Romeo was a wonderful man.
You say this is connected
to the work done
by Topaz Valley Industries.
You think it might
be the same man
that threatened to kill me if
I didn't approve their permit?
We would have thought
it was the same man...
if that man actually existed.
What?
HOLMES: Last night,
after Mr. Garza was killed,
it seemed easier to come up
with reasons that the people
behind Topaz Valley Industries
wouldn't have done it
than reasons
that they would.
I wondered, if they didn't
forge his signature
on the report that we received
and they didn't murder him,
perhaps, despite the story
that you told
my partner,
they didn't put a gun
to your head, either.
Why would I make up
something like that?
BELL: Probably because
you didn't want us
to realize how many
different crimes
you had committed.
GREGSON: Let's start
with the first.
We talked to some
of your colleagues
at, uh, your company
this morning,
and they shared with us a
rumor that you get kickbacks
from a company called
Siwanoy Concrete.
What?
I thought it was
strange how often
you accepted
Siwanoy's bids for
construction jobs
around the county,
especially when
there were
competing bids
that were lower.
HOLMES:
One wonders
how much of a windfall
you would receive
for the reconstruction
of a collapsed bridge.
Now, hold on just a second here.
We think that when
you received
the permit request
from Topaz Valley
to siphon sand near
the Maracott Bridge,
you looked into them.
Eventually, you realized
that it was a front
for Vikrant Jindal
and his men.
HOLMES:
More importantly,
you realized
that if they actually
carried out the work
they were proposing,
there was an excellent chance
that over time
that bridge would collapse.
So you forged a report
saying the exact opposite,
and then you signed
Romeo's name to it.
BELL:
Lauren Wexler realized
the bridge was in danger, right?
That day she came
to your offices,
she tried to warn you,
so you killed her.
You knew that if we talked
to Vikrant Jindal,
he would give us the report
that had Romeo's name on it.
Then Romeo would tell us that he
didn't write a word of it.
GREGSON:
So you killed him, too.
Made it look like it
was Jindal's people
so we would go after
them and not you.
I think I'd like to talk
to my lawyer now.
Sure. No problem.
When he gets here,
we can show him this.
A warrant to
search your car.
We're especially interested
in your seat belts.
We know that Lauren Wexler
was strangled with one
from a late-model
Japanese sedan.
You drive a 2014 Nissan Altima,
don't you?
GREGSON: We appreciate you
driving it here, by the way.
Saved CSU a lot of time.
By now,
they've probably
finished taking swabs
for Ms. Wexler's
skin cells and saliva.
Detective Bell is going to
read you your rights now.
Kelsey, your rideshare is here.
KELSEY:
Be right down.
You okay?
Yeah, it's just hormones.
Here you go.
Thank you.
I'm sorry.
Uh, that was a lie.
I can't give you my baby.
Okay.
I mean, I knew there
were no guarantees.
You're meeting
with other parents.
Maybe you'll find
the right match.
No, no. I-I'm sorry.
It's just...
I should have been more clear.
I can't give you
my baby, because...
I'm keeping it.
I'm not visiting
with any other parents.
I'm going back
to Philadelphia.
It's okay.
Come here. Sit down.
I-I'll cancel your ride.
I'm sorry.
I know this is crazy.
No, it is not crazy.
It's your baby.
You know this is all
your fault, right?
I've never met
anyone like you.
Like, it's inspiring.
Until I got pregnant,
I could have told you exactly
what the next 20 years
of my life looked like.
You know, like,
I was on a track.
Then I peed on a stick
one morning,
and all of a sudden,
I wasn't just off the track.
I mean, the track was gone.
And giving up the baby
was supposed to fix all of that.
Then I spent a couple of days
here with you, and...
I don't know,
it got me thinking,
"Why can't I do
everything I ever wanted
and be a mom?"
It-it sounds so
lame when I say it.
But then Sherlock came
to talk to me last night,
and he told me
that you can do anything.
And I believe him.
I don't know,
I guess I just want people
to say the same thing about me.
I want my son to
be able to say it.
He's kicking.
(chuckles)
He's probably saying,
"You're crazy. Let me
stay here with Joan."
No.
He's probably
just really happy.
You should be, too.
Do you want to feel it?
(both chuckle quietly)
(chuckles)
MAN (over TV):
How long have you known?
WOMAN (over TV):
Since that day at the gala.
I've never understood
the idea that a
sad motion picture
could be helpful
to a sad person.
You don't have
to understand it.
You just have to watch it.
She isn't wrong, you know.
Kelsey.
You are inspiring.
To the right person.
I guess I'll have
to work on that.
(conversation on TV
continues indistinctly)
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org